Amazing, all right, hello everyone.
My name is Sophie, and today I'm gonna be presenting
my research with my advisor, Nikhil Garg, studying
social media through the atmosphere, and I'm so excited to
be here today and meet everyone whose presences I'm recognized
from online, cool to see you all in person.
Yeah, so just a brief kind of background, Nikhil
and I are researchers at Cornell Tech, and our research area
is studying algorithms and society, so kind of the social aspects
of recommendation systems and feeds, understanding dynamics and how to improve
systems along social axes, understanding social media as attention markets,
and studying human AI collaboration.
Today in our talk, I'm going to be talking first
about our work aiding and studying scientific communication on Academic Blue
Sky.
Next I'll talk about, we believe is the potential for
studying novel feed experiments through the custom feed ecosystem, as well
as novel interfaces through the app protocol.
So I'll start with Academic BlueSky.
So the backstory for this project is really that Nikhil and
I had been doing a project researching fairness and recommendation.
It was a theory project, which is my kind of original
research area, and we had worked with a master student who
built a recommender for archive preprints.
And we used this to simulate kind of market outcomes in this
like recommendation system.
And we were curious, what happens in real data?
How can we study the fairness outcomes in attention markets on a
real deployed system?
How do we experiment?
And what this really looks like in the literature is either you
run a lab experiment, you build some sort of simulated recommend
er, you get people to interact with it and see their
behavior.
Another option is to deploy browser extensions.
So on Twitter, you get someone to download your extension and
engage with Twitter and you will like manually or you will academically
re-rank the post that Twitter is returning.
And this is, you know, also friction-full because
you have to recruit participants and get them to download the extension
and engage with it.
And then the final option is to collaborate with a platform.
But these are kind of few, these opportunities are few and
far between.
So suddenly, November, 2024, many academics were using blue
sky and in particular, looking for a personalized academic experience,
which is something that we were really excited about building.
And so Nikila had this idea, let's build a
custom feed for academics on blue sky.
And so we had a little hackathon and built paper sky
just which is a custom feed for academics showing posts about papers
from accounts you're following.
So it's a very simple algorithm and our objective here is
to both support academic research discovery, support academics on blue sky
, but also, you know, in terms of our research
, enable novel experiments to study open research questions.
So, yeah, we launched last March a year ago and
we've seen like kind of sustained usage over that time and
also kind of very positive testimonials from people saying that this
has really improved their experience using blue sky as academics and being
able to see, you know, filtered academic content in one
place that's personalized to them.
And we, with the data that we've collected from paper
sky just, we can look at interesting questions here.
So one, you know, plot from our paper is looking
at the histogram of archive categories across archive posts on blue sky
that aren't associated with a bot account which we've labeled
.
And so this is sort of the distribution across all posts,
but then you can ask what is the distribution of posts that
we sent to users on paper sky just when they requested the
feed.
And you can see that it's a bit like higher on
the AI and LG is like machine learning as well as like
computer vision and linguistics.
And then similarly, the posts that people interact with, you
can also look at like what are people interacting with in this
content on sky just that we've returned.
So that's just an example of like one of the figures
we have in our paper and these kind of questions that we
can now look at with this data of people using our feed
.
And there's like a variety of kind of spin off projects
that we're working on here, one being kind of like
looking at doing social science analyses of what people are talking about
and working on a blue sky and leveraging emerging NLP tools
like sparse auto encoders to do sort of topic
analyses.
We're trying to extend paper sky just to include trending content
and more sophisticated recommendations to a discovery and discourse and also running
experiments on paper sky just to, you know, AB test
different, different algorithms and also answer interesting science of science questions
.
And this leads to kind of the novel feed experiments section of
the talk.
So we've been piloting, um, experiments on blue
, uh, on paper sky just particularly, um, you
know, including reposts versus not including reposts
.
Um, but one thing that I'm really excited to talk
about today is, um, some research that we've been
doing, um, Oh, this is out of order,
but yes, we did have the pilot experiment, um,
which kind of shows some weak results.
Um, but excited to talk about this project we're doing
in collaboration with Andra, uh, who runs the trend
.
The trending news feed, um, and grays who hosts
the trending news feed.
Um, so this is a really cool feed, um,
uh, that, uh, includes posts sourced from,
uh, around 300 verified news organizations and has around kind of
10,000 daily users.
Um, and we're excited to answer some interesting research questions
.
So there's this exciting paper from 2006, um, commonly
known as like the music lab experiment, which studies things about
, um, rich get richer effects, which I think got
mentioned on the panel earlier today.
Um, which basically shows that kind of like little random disturb
ances in what content gets exposure early on in the process can
kind of, um, uh, result in these drastically different
long-term outcomes.
Um, and, and change like whether, uh, posts
get exposed, um, uh, according really in terms of
like are the highest quality posts being shown.
Um, so we want to understand yet to what extent does
initial randomness and account size produce these rich get richer effects
in a real social setting.
Cause this is like a lab experiment.
Um, and also how can we solve this?
Like how can we mitigate these effects and try to get posts
being shown that are, um, you know, truly the
, the quality content that people want to see.
Um, and kind of smooth out this randomness and kind
of the bigger picture here that we're excited about, like
custom feed experiments on blue sky is that, yeah, there
's kind of a bunch of new directions for feed experiments.
There's new stakeholders, feed creators who are community members who
are passionate about showing their community, the content that they want
to see.
And potentially those algorithms that are good for different communities are,
you know, yeah, heterogeneous and, and, and
, and different communities want to see different things.
Um, as kind of like with this music lab, uh
, extension that we're thinking about, it's an opportunity
to ask like these age old social media questions in new settings
and, um, in deployment.
Um, and yeah, um, as I was saying,
new, new questions about how this is heterogeneous across,
um, communities.
And finally, I want to talk about, um, novel
interfaces through the app protocol.
Um, so there's a couple of things that we've
been working on here.
Uh, in particular, we've been thinking about how can
we kind of, um, allow people customization experiment, uh
, experience on their paper sky, just, um, as
well as this project led by Kenny Pung from my lab
, um, on, um, kind of, uh,
extending outside of the linear feed structure, um, to trails
and, and these post linear feeds.
Um, so the customization interface here, um, so custom
feeds gives user algorithmic choice and there's kind of been
a lot of interest, I think, in academia and industry
in, um, sort of giving users more agency over their
, their algorithms and their online experiences.
Um, but this leads to a lot of research questions such
as like, what, how much granularity do users want
?
Um, you know, are they, is the feed,
um, you know, choosing between different feeds that are created
by other people, is that kind of the sweet spot?
Or do people want like more fine grain control, um,
what types of controls do they like?
Do they like to control like who they're looking at or
do they want to see kind of, um, different mi
xtures?
Um, and is there some sort of consensus about what's
good for people or are there different kind of types of users
?
Um, and so to that end, we built this,
uh, customization interface, which for the sake of smoothness
, I will probably just show the screenshots instead of the actual
demo.
Um, but find me after I'll show, show the
Um, but basically this like configuration editor, um, which
is similar to, um, I think, uh, tools
that others have developed.
Um, uh, but basically, um, on the one
hand, you can kind of tune your, your Skype experience
and it'll like responsibly show you a preview of what
your Skype just will look like.
Um, so one thing we're really excited about here is
building good kind of defaults for people to use.
And then seeing which defaults people, um, people grav
itate toward, especially kind of like what, what do people
want and what do people end up using here?
Um, but then we hope to give, um, sort
of more flexibility, um, including like these follow weights.
So like, can you talk, uh, can you kind
of, um, put different weights or like inclusion on your
followers?
So for example, if I'm following a bunch of academics
, but I want my papers guide just to mostly be,
uh, specifically the like econ CS academics.
Then I could like filter down to that, um, and
then different weights, both on in terms of like global likes
, as well as, uh, interactions from people I'm
following.
Um, and then, oh yeah, this is just showing
the time decay, uh, does things.
Um, and then, uh, and then also, uh
, filtering down to specific categories of content.
So I've here filtered the AI category and, um,
uh, these are like trending things, uh, in the
last, uh, you know, 72 hours in, in
, uh, in AI.
Um, uh, archive posts and, um, yeah,
you can imagine swapping these out for like sparse auto
encoders or other, um, other, uh,
topics.
Like I think, um, I think the child talk had
a bunch of like topics and stuff that we could maybe integrate
with.
Um, and then how am I doing for time?
Sorry.
Two minutes.
Okay.
Amazing.
I have time for this.
So, yeah, so this, um, last thing is
, is a project I'm really excited about that is led
by Kenny Pung.
Uh, at Cornell tech, um, and this is,
uh, yeah, um, yeah, just a really cool
project.
Uh, so we all know that algorithmic feeds are flawed
in many ways.
So, um, there are filter bubbles, there's doom
scrolling.
Um, people feel trapped, uh, often in their,
in their, uh, um, by their algorithms and there
's kind of extensive research on improving feed algorithms and understanding the
ways in which they fail.
Um, and you're improving fairness, improving diversity, um
, uh, but Kenny's idea is why do we have
to be, you know, restricting ourselves to this linear
feed interface.
Um, so the original vert, uh, vision of the
web was to browse hypertext, like that's where HTTP
comes from.
And this goes all the way back to like the 1950s
, the vision of Vannevar Bush of like, um
, uh, uh, you know, navigating trails of information
and how can we, um, you know, switch between
, um, different topics and make connections.
Um, and there's a connection here to the work that
Semble's doing, um, also building trails.
Um, and so, uh, well, Semble like
, uh, assembles trails, um, using like human
curation, Kenny's idea, um, uh, is
, is, is building trails for interacting with social media through
, uh, through new, um, LLM technology
to basically, um, generate these trails algorithmically.
Um, so he uses sparse autoencoders,
which basically generate interpretable labels for different, um, pieces
of content, um, and excitingly, he implemented this
on like a week's worth of blue sky data.
Um, so you should all check this out.
I'll show a demo in a second, but if you
want to pull it up, um, this is called sky
trails and this is, um, his, uh, basically
, uh, blue sky browser.
Um, so if you open sky trails, you can see
.
You can see a, uh, selection, a random selection
of the trails that are available, um, and I'm
just gonna click into the PG, Woodhouse, and J
eeves, and here are a bunch of posts related to
this topic, and as I'm scrolling, I see,
okay, now I'm interested in discussions about ChatGP
T, so I click on this trail, and I'm
led to the trail about ChatGPT.
And I can scroll down here, and then, oh,
this is really interesting and esoteric, is seeking or
suggesting alternatives.
I'm now on this trail, I can scroll down,
oh, stylish and fashionable aesthetics, so I scroll here,
and so now you can see how I've really navigated
the space of content.
I've found things that are kind of cross-cutting
these concepts that you maybe wouldn't have, like, expected
even are being discussed, or, like, certainly there's
not gonna be a custom feed for, like, you know
, what was the last one, like, seeking or suggesting
alternatives.
Um, but maybe it's something I'm interested in,
and so there's this, uh, this, um,
ability to, like, quickly navigate the world of content,
find new interests, find new discussions that people are having,
um, and so that's the, the idea of post
-linear feeds.
Um, so yeah, with that, um, thank you
to our wonderful set of collaborators, um, including folks in
this room, um, like Andra, and, um
, yeah, uh, thank you for listening.
And I also want to shout out the F-Tech Lab
eler, um, from the Social Technologies Lab, um,
which is the Account Activity Labeler, which I think
is quite popular and very effective, and I'm a big
fan, so that's from another group at Cornell Tech.
Um, so thank you, everyone.
Amazing.
Thank you, Sophie.
Uh, questions, anyone?
Um, it's not really a question, sorry, uh
, but, uh, seek, seek, seek, seek
, seek, seek, seek, seek, seek, like
, the, um, I, I like the, the
Skytrails.
Um, I like, I like the, the lateral movement
through topic space, uh, the memex-like,
um, interface.
Yeah.
You mentioned earlier the, um, possibility of doing Science of
Science, using the data, uh, from your Sky Chest
, uh, tool.
I'm curious, are you, are you actively working in
that area?
What do you have planned?
Because, as someone who's just dipping his toes into scient
ometrics, you know, this is very exciting, and
I'm, I'm wondering what you're thinking of.
Yeah, thank you.
I think our interest is, like, um, kind of
science of academic communication specifically.
So, understanding, I think our angle will be, like
, looking at the, um, these, like, feed
, uh, like, the, the trending algorithm, or
, like, the different algorithm choices we make on Paper Sky
Chest, and how those choices, especially, kind of,
interpretable, um, uh, design decisions, impact,
kind of, discourse, and engagement, and, you know
, who's coming out.
And, you know, who's following who, and stuff
like that.
Um, so that's, I think, the angle that
we're interested in, uh, especially as well as these
, kind of, like, more observational questions of,
like, across blue sky, like, as we're adjusting
the fires, what are we seeing about, like, what
people are talking about, and, um, engaging with.
Great talk, thanks.
Thanks.
Um, one thing I think a lot about with custom feeds
in the network, and, kind of, and incentives,
so you can do these studies where, like, how does
it impact individuals' behaviors through what feeds they see?
But a lot of what feeds are doing is they're setting
, they're, kind of, like, the rules of
the game, and they end up, you know, certain
kinds of content, if they're getting a lot of traction
, or visibility, or people are interacting, even, like
, liking, or following, or getting these social interactions more
than just, like, uh, social media interactions, that
will incentivize people to create different kinds of content, and
get, get this big loop going.
Yeah.
And so you change what kinds of content is available through that
, but that's hard to do with, like, an
exciting thing with, with blue sky, the app, and
the protocol, is that we can do these, people can
create new things and do experiments pretty easily for individuals, but
it's harder for groups.
Have you, do you have any ideas on how to s
uss that out, or try to get, kind of,
like, signal through, like, especially if it's only
impacting a smaller part of the overall graph or network?
Yeah, that's a really interesting question.
I guess there's two aspects to my answer, though.
The first is that, like, this is sort of one
of the things we're excited about, like, with the
trending news feed, um, is looking at, so we
did a pilot experiment, like, um, basically putting a
lot of the, uh, the weight, um, on
the gray, these gray multipliers on the reposts
, and seeing how that changed, like, what content was
, so we ended up seeing a lot more, like,
um, smaller news organizations were, um, right in the
top, and you ended up seeing, like, sort of
, like, sort of an amplification of, like,
you, you created, uh, higher weight on repost
s, and then you saw a lot more reposts
, um, relative to that, other feed.
But I think maybe your question is more just, like,
okay, the trending news feed is, sort of, an
outlier in terms of, like, feed size, and
so how can we actually study, um, like, uh
, how these feeds are, are impacting, sort of,
things on a bigger scale when they're small?
And I haven't actually thought of that question, and I
'll think more about it.
Thank you.
Uh, hi.
So, apologies in advance if my question's just, like
, completely out of nowhere, because I'm really sorry I
joined your talk late.
Um, but I'm wondering, like, especially looking at
the, kind of, like, trails of conversations and topics
that, you know, users and people are, kind of
, posting about, I'm wondering if you've done a
lot of